# snake-game-project
SEI Project 1 - Classic Game - HTML CSS Javascript

Project 1 - SNAKE CARS
Link: https://vjmreysantos.github.io/SEI-game-project/

Overview and Concept
I chose to recreate a snake game because it is a timeless classic! I remember playing the game for hours on my Nokia 3310. I was inspired by my children to add my own twist to the game and use Disney’s Cars as a theme. Mater (as the snake) tows Lightning Mcqueen (as the food).

Brief
Mater should be able to tow Lightning Mcqueens to grow longer and go faster. The oil spill will make it slow down and lose points. The game ends when it hits the barrier, the walls or itself.

- Render a game in the browser
- Include separate HTML, CSS and JavaScript files
- Use JavaScript for DOM Manipulation
- Deploy the game online

Technologies Used
- HTML
- CSS
- JavaScript
- VSCode
- Eslint
- Git

Planning
I created a wireframe of what I wanted the app to look like, making a list of the main goals and the stretch goals that I could add. I decided to focus on the basic functionalities first to make sure I’ve achieved the requirements before moving on to the styling and adding extras.

Approach taken
I started by creating a grid of divs by adding a function that generates using a for loop with a value of width * width. The movements are set in motion with a setInterval and is controlled by a keyUp event listener that is linked to the up, right, down and left keys. I also added some buttons with the same function so it is playable in mobile view. The barrier, oil spill and Lightning Mcqueen are generated by Math.random function with a while loop to prevent the random position to share with another class. I also added some audio background and sound effects to make it more interesting and kid-friendly. To end the game, I created a condition to put a restriction around the board, the barrier and itself. Then I put a window alert and confirm if you want to play again.

Visuals



Debugging
I played the game numerous times to find any faults and errors. I encountered a lot but I managed to diagnose using console log checks and rectify the issue. Most of which are syntax errors.

Wins and struggles
One of the hurdles was figuring out the logic to prevent the user from going the opposite direction and end the game.
I was quite happy that I was able to add some buttons and make it playable for mobile view.

Future improvements
- Make the oil spill and barrier randomly change after every 5-7 seconds.
- Make Tow Mater face the direction that it is going.
- Add Lightning McQueens as tails instead of Tow Mater. 
- Add a highscore and register the player name.

Key Learnings
This first project was a really good opportunity to learn how HTML, CSS and JavaScript functions as a whole after weeks of learning them separately. It was also a good practice to work within a timeline and ensure that the app was ready in time for deployment.

